let's bring in Al jazer senior political
analyst m bashara in London Mr baral's
words there were um slightly polite I
would say with the Secretary of State on
the other side of the table Maran but
he's been a lot more firm in his
statements which has caught the
attention of not just the Americans but
across you might say uh the European
political Spectrum
too well yes I mean his accusations of
Israel of weaponizing hunger of starving
the people of Gaza creating famine in
Gaza leading to the death of so many
children in Gaza calling it a war on
children I mean that sort of uh language
from the European higher commission for
foreign policy is new it's late but you
know as we always say it's better than
never it's been five months of this and
seems like they've been awakened to it
but I think there's a there's there an
interesting moment here so it's the fact
that the am an are letting the press in
to the meeting allowing this kind of a
sound bite to be aired around the world
in Europe in the United States and so on
I think that's important that's relevant
not only to what bell is saying but the
fact that the Americans want it out they
want to show that the Americans are and
the Europeans are are in agreement over
the fact that uh Netanyahu is
weaponizing hunger and this Aid through
the uh through the sea roots or by air
is not sufficient the borders must be
open you know I wonder if uh these
leaders and others like blinkin like
Boral and here in the UK and elsewhere
are feeling more and more like they are
they are or they have been netanyahu's
useful
idiots because for five months they
supported him unconditionally hoping
that when the time comes he will listen
he doesn't listen he turns his back on
any advice on any opinion on any
criticism or condemnation and continues
with business as usual Killing Fields in
Gaza would it be fair to say that Burell
is also feeling that pressure to Maran
because there are other European
governments within the EU and European
leaders who have criticized Israel a lot
earlier than what Burell is saying right
now there are splits in the
EU
there have been splits in the EU a
number of countries like Ireland Spain
Belgium Norway and others have in fact
been outspoken others haven't some have
been stonch supporters of Israel but be
that as it may there's a new I would say
some form of a consensus emerging and
that's what the Burell has actually
underlined that he now he's speaking for
Europe when he spoke at the UN Security
Council and as he speaks in
Washington that Europe is fed up
uh with with the weaponization of hunger
in Gaza which is really a war crime the
fact that nany continues with with his
usual uh you know pure evil as it were
and not listening uh to his close allies
who have been supporting him shielding
him uh
internationally on the other hand yes
there is an increasing public opinion
that is outspoken I've seen it
personally in the in the streets the
artist movements
seen it in the Public Square we've seen
it in all walks of life in countless
Western cities where more and more
people uh are speaking out against the
injustices against the genocide that's
unraveling in plain side on their TV
screens and of course that does bring me
then to the next question which was
about sort of that that European
movement the public movement at the
moment there are really important EU
elections coming up in June and and the
public are not stupid across Europe
those that are voicing uh their opinion
about what they see happening in Gaza
are certainly making their feelings
known in The Ballot Box we've seen a
recent uh British byelection in the
northwest of England where the winning
candidate fought just on one subject and
that was the war on Gaza and how he as
an independent was very different from
the the the parties that that you might
say run the United Kingdom right
now there is no doubt that Western
public opinion is an educated public
opinion in general and Western Elites
are some of the more intelligent Elites
there's no doubt like other Elites
around the world intelligent well read
and they can see and they can and they
can tell right from wrong and they can
see the double standards they can see
their leaders response in Ukraine how it
differs from their leaders response in
Gaza and the can see the hypocrisy that
their leaders claim one thing about
human rights but respond another thing
when it comes to the violation of human
rights in Gaza another thing they can
tell is that in the end of the day
leaders tend to have one standard not
double standard and that's their
interest and the and the interest of
their countries especially when it comes
to their allies the case of Ukraine and
Israel but they just cannot stand the
injustices anymore that is carried in
their name because in the end of the day
their governments are complicit in
genocide in the war crimes in the state
Terror that is taking place in Gaza so
they understand that it's their tax
money that is going to subsidize
Israel's genocidal War they understand
that their leaders can do something
about it and they are not so I think
there is a general understanding that
Israel is on the wrong that this war is
immoral that supporting it is immoral
and it has proved to be
counterproductive in the sense that it's
not resolving any of the underlying
issues the conflict the occupation the
suler colonial regime the insecurity and
so on so forth in fact if anything the
whole region now is more stabiliz
destabilized than before so I think
there is a general consensus especially
among the elites but also among the
public at large that something has gone
wrong over the past five months that
their leaders had proved to be useful
idiots for Netanyahu who used them
squeezed them got all he wanted out of
them in order to carry his personal
ideological and Colonial agenda in Gaza
that proved to be
genocidal mam Bashar we'll leave it
there for now obviously we'll continue
to monitor events and get your analysis
as time goes by for the moment thanks
for joining
us